Just after the Supreme Court decision
banning our activity in Russia
that was given in April,
the Finland Branch Committee
wrote to the Teaching Committee
and right away requested permission
to arrange a convention
for about 4,000 of our dear brothers
from Russia.
Well, now, quite coincidentally
or perhaps not,
back in January,
I was feeling a little bit tired,
and I have some good friends
in Finland,
and so we arranged
to go to a convention together
in the month of June
—that was all approved back in January.
Well, by coincidence
—can you imagine?—it turned out to be
the same weekend
that this Russian convention
was being planned for Finland.
And so the Teaching Committee
asked me if I’d be willing
to serve this Russian convention
instead of the Finnish one.
And, of course, I was delighted.
Beds were needed
for all of these 4,000 brothers.
Well—can you imagine?—in just a short time,
4,373 beds were offered.
In many cases, the brothers had no place
to house visitors, but what did they do?
They called the branch and said:
“We’ll pay for a hotel room.
“We don’t care who it’s for;
put whoever you want there,
but we want to pay the cost.”
So everyone was able to be accommodated.
When the brothers arrived in Finland,
some had come from as far away
as Vladivostok,
traveling some 6,000 miles (9,600 km),
if you can imagine,
to attend this convention.
The brothers were at the train stations;
they were at the airport
to welcome all the guests.
Now, when the first brothers and sisters
arrived at the convention venue,
they asked,
“Well, where is the Russian section?”
since they believed
that this was a Finnish convention
with Russian sessions.
Well, when they were told
that this convention
had been organized just for them,
they immediately began to cry.
Can you imagine
the joy that the brothers had
when they were able
to sing out with full voice?
The singing was so, so moving.
Well, the peak attendance
of the convention was 5,137,
and 33 were baptized.
Well, during the convention,
the Finland Branch Committee arranged
for the delegates to be able to tour Bethel.
And to allow as many as possible
to come through,
Bethel was kept open until 8:00 p.m.
on Thursday, Friday, and Monday,
and also on Sunday evening
from 6:00 p.m. until 8:00 p.m.
And can you imagine?
During the day,
the kitchen arranged to feed
all of the brothers and sisters
who came through in the dining room.
The love that was witnessed was amazing.
And although it’s perhaps not their culture,
do you know that
the Finnish brothers hugged
every single brother and sister
that came through.
Well, when it was time to say good-bye,
the bond of love that had been
established between the Finnish
and the Russian brothers
was just wonderful to see.
And although we all thought
we would be crying
to see them go back to Russia
and the challenges there,
you know, we just couldn’t
cry because the brothers
were too happy about the convention.
And there was no one saying, “Poor me.”
They all went back with just a joyful spirit,
and it moved us.
Well, just a few weeks later,
we had to return to Russia again
for the appeal hearing at the Supreme Court.
Most of you are aware, of course,
that an international delegation
of 18 brothers
were present in the courtroom
for the hearing,
but perhaps this last part
of the story you haven’t heard.
World headquarters Legal Department
had explained to us
that if the decision was negative,
we would have to leave the country
of Russia that same night.
Well, of course,
we didn’t know if the hearing
would be just that one day
or if it would stretch on for other days.
So our only choice was to take
all of our things with us to the court,
and if the decision came,
we would have to make
immediate plans to leave Russia.
Well, sure enough, at 7:00 p.m.
the negative decision was announced.
We had to leave Russia,
but the problem was
that none of us had tickets.
So, what did we do?
Well, we told the brothers just get
in the vehicles and head for the airport
while we were communicating
with the world headquarters Travel Desk.
Well, thanks to the wonderful
and very hard work
of those wonderful brothers and sisters
that work with the Travel Desk,
about halfway to the airport,
I began to receive the tickets
for all 18 brothers via e-mail.
By Jehovah’s undeserved kindness,
all 18 brothers were able
to get out on the same flight
—can you imagine?—
the last flight out of Moscow.
And here we are just before 1:00 a.m.
when we arrived in Riga, Latvia.
We truly felt as though
we had been picked up by Jehovah
and safely carried out of Russia.
Well, all of the brothers and sisters
that I met along the way on these trips
wanted to send their warm Christian love
and greetings to all of you
and let you know that
just as you are praying for them,
they’re also praying for you.